(gentle music)
Video let's work on getting the pizzas,
the list of pizzas,
their name, and their emails.
Let's get up, get working on that data,
being sent over to our serverless function,
and then in the following video we'll work on
actually sending that
and templating it into an email.
So we need to go into our usePizza hook
that we wrote earlier,
and that is up here.
Okay, cool.
We need a couple new pieces of state
that live inside of this pizza.
We need something that will handle errors
and we need something that will handle the loading state
and also something that will handle any return messages.
So in order to do that,
we will make them const the error set error,
is equal to useState,
and there's no default state.
Then we'll also grab loading,
setLoading, and that will default to false.
And then finally,
we have a message and we'll have a setMessage
that will default to an empty string, okay.
Then what we need to do
is return those new values
So error, loading, and message.
All three of those need to be returned from our hook.
And then we can use them in our,
I believe it's our order page.
UsePizza, here we go.
So we can restructure them here.
So error, loading
and message comes in from our usePizza.
Then we can.
Let's do the loading state first.
So we'll go down to where it says order ahead,
and we'll grab this button
and when it's loading,
we'll disable it.
So also disabled is equal to loading.
And then in here,
the order ahead text can be dynamic based on
if it's loading or not.
So let's say loading, if that is true,
then we'll say placing order ...,
otherwise we will say order ahead,
okay.
So now we need to create a handler
for when somebody clicks on this button right here.
So we'll go back to our usePizza
and make another function in here.
So this is our usePizza.
This is our state.
These are our functions.
We're going to create another function
that is called submitOrder.
So it's in the sync function,
submitOrder that takes in the event.
So this is the function that is run
when someone submits the form.
So the first thing we need to do is e.preventDefault.
'Cause watch, if I submit this sucker right now,
like types of stuff into here
and go ahead and click order,
you see, it actually puts it in the URL.
We don't want that, right?
We want this data
to be submitted to the backend.
So what we can do is e.preventDefault
and let's just console.log the event.
And then we'll also,
say set loading
to true.
So watch this now when we cook it.
Oh no,
We haven't hooked it up yet.
So we have this submitOrder function.
We have to return it from our hook.
We have to go to our order page
and destructure structure it from our hook.
And then we'll take our order form.
And we'll say on submit is equal to submitOrder.
So this is a form tag once it gets rendered out.
Now I believe if we click this, here we go.
You see, as soon as I clicked that
it ran submitOrder,
which currently prevents default, good.
It also should have logged the event.
There she is.
And it sets loading to true,
which causes it to say placing order, right?
So order head here we go placing order.
Good,
next thing we need to do here
is to
gather all the data
that needs to be sent.
So we'll say const,
let's just name that body as equal to curly brackets
and the body will be the order
is going to be our actual order.
We'll just have an empty array.
We have our total,
which is going to be format money
and calculate order total.
And we'll pass it our order with our pizzas,
the name is going to be pulled from the inputs.
Remember we take a look at our order.
You see that we have our values here
and those get passed to our usePizza.
We rename it to inputs here.
I'm not sure why let's name.
Let's rename that to values.
That's better.
We'll go to pizza.
We'll change this to values.
And then back down here is values.name.
Email is values.email.
This formatMoney function needs to be imported, good.
Okay. So that's our body.
Last thing we need to do is we can
just put order here for now.
we've got to create a new function
to actually attach the names
and the prices to the order,
but this should be our data.
So let's go ahead
and console.log the body
and let's go add some stuff.
Let's type some stuff into here
and go ahead and submit it.
Oh, that's not a valid email address.
Okay, that's good.
We get our email or our name,
our order and our total, good.
So all of that data needs to be sent over to the backend.
Let's just take a quick look at this order though.
The order is obviously not what we want.
So we need to make a new function.
I'm gonna call that attach names and prices.
So we'll go into our utils folder here,
make a new file,
call attachNamesAndPrices.JS,
export,
default function attachNamesAndPrices
that we'll take in the order itself,
as well as the list of pizzas.
And in here we will return the order
and we'll map over it
and change each of these to actually
be a little bit more populated.
So map we'll call that in item.
And then from that,
we want to say the const pizza is equal to,
well pizzas.find where the pizza.
Pizza.id is equal to
the item.id that will give us the pizza.
And then finally from here,
we will return the a copy of everything we have.
So item,
and then we also wanna add the name
of the pizza on pizza.name.
We wanna add the thumbnail,
which is gonna be
pizza.image.asset.fluid.src.
And then we wanna attach the price to that.
And that would be pizza.price.
But as we know, that is in cents
We can wrap that in calculate pizza price,
and (indistinct) to pass it the item.sized
in order for it to do that.
And then we also need
the formatMoney function we wrote earlier,
you see how we're using these all over our files.
That's why we put them in their own file
because we reuse them over.
Make sure you import them.
There we go.
Both of those have been imported.
So I believe we should now be able
to use this attach names
and prices function,
we go back to our usePizza.
In our order will say attach names
and prices to the order
and give it the list of pizzas as well.
Make sure you import attachNamesAndPrices
from the file that it lives in.
Now I believe if we go ahead and fill this out,
I had a bunch of pizzas
then order ahead,
our order is now there we go,
you see it's now populated
with the actual pieces of information that we need.
Awesome, looking good.
Now what we need to do is number four,
send this data to the server (indistinct) function
when they check out, okay.
So let's do that now.
So we will run const response is equal to,
we'll use a fetch function
and we need to fetch.
It's usually something like this,
//.netlify// what was it?
Placefunctions//place order.
But I don't want you hard coding this
into your URL
because like what happens
if you choose not to host it on netlify?
You wanna host it somewhere else, right.
Your code should not be specifically written
for a deployment target.
So you wanna make that a little bit flexible if we can.
So we're gonna store that path
in a environmental variable.
And then if you ever need to change that,
you just have to change the environmental variable
and not change any of your code.
So go into your .env file
and we'll add it here.
We'll say
Gatsby_serverless_base.
So this is gonna be where the base
of your functions will live.
And that is,
http://localhost:8888/
.netlify/funtions.
And then if you decide to put these functions anywhere else,
you just have to swap that URL out
and everything else will stay the same.
Again, we prefix it with Gatsby_
so that we can access it in the browser,
on the client and we'll go back here
and we will interpolate it.
So what is again,
process.env.Gatsby_
serverless_base.
And then do we end it with a no,
I never end my URLs with a forward slash
because if for some reason you need to take it off,
it's really hard, but it's always easy to
just add it on yourself like that.
/placeorder okay.
So that's the first bit of it.
And then the second argument to this fetch request
is going to be,
method is going to be post
as your posting data not getting it that's the default
headers is going to be Json.
So you can post all kinds of data to an end point.
It can be just raw form data.
It can be a form and coded data in our case,
we're sending it Json.
So we have to tell the server that is accepting it that,
Hey, this is Json.
So when it comes in
make sure you appropriately parse it as so.
So the content type this
because there's a dash in it,
you have to put the property in quotes.
There's very few things in JavaScript like that.
But in our case that is one
and the content type is going to be,
this is called a mime type
as application/Json.
That is the base type for Json.
The body is going
to be normally you think like, okay,
just we have this body right here,
but it can't be sent as an object.
It has to be sent as a string.
So you have to wrap it in Json.stringify
and then pass it your body,
which we created up here.
Okay looks like we might have a scoping issue.
Oh, I just coded all of this outside
of the submitOrder function.
So make sure we bring it back inside
And that's the beauty of,
lemme bring it back.
You see how, like this was saying,
body is not defined.
And then this was telling me body was never used.
And that immediately told me,
Oh, I have a scoping issue.
That that's why I love using (indistinct)
for things like that.
It jumped out right out,
right away to me.
We have a response okay.
Then what we need to do is to parse the response.
So fetch requests are in two stages.
First, you get the response.
And then when it's,
I think that just has like the headers in it immediately,
and then if you actually want
to wait for the body to finish coming back,
we have to get the response from that so say,
const text is equal to,
await response.text,
and Oh, we forgot our await in front of this fetch too.
Make sure you put that there.
And then the response from this,
we haven't done this.
This is on the server side
we have that's gonna be in Json again.
So we have to Jason, Oop.
Not that kind of Json, this kind of Json.parse it,
submit wrap your
await response.text in a Json.parse.
All right so send it over,
wait for the response.
And then here we will look,
let's write the logic we haven't,
I know we haven't written the server side part of this yet,
but let's clean up all this logic first
and then we'll go right the backend.
So it actually works with it.
So what we need to do here is check
if everything worked
everything,
let's say, if the response.status
is greater or equal to 400.
So all of the responses above 400 are going to be okay
oh, sorry everything above 400 are bad statuses.
And then we say,
and the response.status has less than 600.
So between between 400 and including 400,
all the way up to 599,
those status codes are something went wrong.
And if that's the case, then what we need
to do is say set loading false.
So we got to turn off loading.
We need to also set the error.
So set error and we take the text.message.
And that is gonna be sent from our server side.
Otherwise else it worked.
It's a set loading to be false again,
and set message to be success.
Come on down for your pizza.
And we can probably also send this message
from the server side
but let's just code it in there right now okay.
Okay we're doing pretty good.
Other thing we need to do is
if we ever hit this
like something went wrong with the order
like I don't know you shouldn't order pineapple on pizza.
If that is an error, then you set it here.
And then when the person corrects their order
by removing pineapple,
then they should we have to clear it.
So what we'll do is up here where we say set loading true.
We also need to set error
to be null
and also set message to be null as well.
Then we need to handle actually showing
and hiding of these errors and messages.
So we'll go to our order here
and let's go no order, sorry, order page.
Let's go right above the button.
And if there is an error, we'll put it in there.
So just give yourself div.
And we'll say, if there is an error,
then we will return a paragraph.
This is error and display what the error is.
Otherwise it will explain nothing,
(mumbles)
What did I do there? I broke it unexpected colon.
question if there's an error.
Oh, I forgot to close the paragraph tag
or I did it in the wrong spot.
There we go so now like watch,
if we go to our usePizza hook here
and when somebody,
I don't know, just like when someone submits the order,
if we were to set the error,
like no way,
watch this.
Boom.
Oh, I know why
it's 'cause we did this here.
Just return right here.
Just skip all of this.
'Cause we haven't written that.
Oh no.
What happened to all that code there.
If you put a return and save it deletes it,
that's not good, I'll control + Z it .
(laughs)
That must be new I've never seen that happen.
So adding things order ahead,
here we go.
See if there is an error,
it will then show up right here,
which is great.
So let's roll that back
and make sure we got it.
And then we also wanna go to our order here
all the way up right here.
And if there is a message,
then we don't need any of this stuff.
So let's just say
if there is a message return P.
Then we'll put the message in there.
Otherwise we're gonna return the entire pizza.
So let's try that real quick.
Take that set error and set to null.
I'll set the message to go eat.
And it should say,
go eat for just a second
it we'll probably break again,
but let's see. Boom.
All right it just did for a quick second.
And then it broke.
We can return here.
There we go.
Then I just takes the entire order form away
if that is the case.
Beautiful okay.
So that's the client side part of it
in the next video we'll pick it up
and actually see if we can intercept this data
or accept this data
and then start to email it out.